Welcome to scripting concepts
brought to you by IBM.
In this video, Raul will be taking us
through the different concepts related to
scripting languages.
Let's get started.
>> A script is basically a program.
There is a difference,
well, a basic difference in
which a script is not
translated to machine code.
It depends on an interpreter program
that will run a script line by line.
But other than that,
it has the same functions, procedure.
It can have external calls,
an external call is
a reference to another program.
In this case another script that will
be run from the original script and
will add its output to the script
that we're running and
the standard variables and constants.
Let's see some examples.
Most scripts depend on variables
to be able to perform its output.
A rule of thumb is most
scripts just as almost every
program languages, I'll say that again.
A rule of thumb is that
most script interpreters
just the same as most programming
languages need its variables defined.
Now, that doesn't happen in
script languages like bash.
In Windows, yes, you need to declare
the type of the variable you're using.
What does it mean,
what does it mean declaring?
It means that if you're going to
store text into a variable you
need to tell the scripting interpreter
that you're using it for text.
Otherwise if you are using variable for
numbers and
that's text, you won't be able to use any
mathematic functions on that variable.
It will give you an error.
Now, for space efficiency,
Most variable types have
a ready set memory size.
That happens for most programming
languages and most interpreters.
Bash uses a pointered memory type so
it doesn't use size for its variables.
But that's an exception.
Now, these variables
what can I do to them?
I can assign a value?
I can reference, manipulate, replace, or
at the end of the program
delete the variable.
Now, there is a special kind of variables
called arguments or parameters.
What happens with this is exactly
why the scripts are so interesting.
When we're calling a script,
we can tell name of the script,
let's call it backup.
And then in the command line we
can tell it backup its database.
Now inside of the script,
we are going to program that variable
that comes after the name of
the script as a parameter.
Basically a parameter
is something we have at
the beginning of the script
execution as part of the script
calling that we will be
using to perform the script.
It will be either the target or
it will be one of the commands or
operations that we are going
to perform on the target.
Now the if statement is
the lesser definition
of a decision inside of a script.
It will give us an instructor
to decide if we're going to
perform one operation or
another inside of a script.
The normal definition under
if statement will be if and
then we're going to establish a condition
that will be one state or
another, true or false.
Then what is going to be performed if
that condition comes true or
else that is the code
that will be executed
if the condition comes as false,
and the end of the if statement.
When performing repetitive tasks,
we are going to
face situations when a task has to
be repeated by a number of times.
Sometimes we will know how many
times we have to repeat the test.
Sometimes it will come as a [INAUDIBLE] or
sometimes we will have a list of items we
don't know when we are writing the script
how many times is it going to be repeated.
But there is a variable or a list of
variables that will determine that.
So we will create a loop.
The three loops defined in almost
every programming language are, for
loop is going to be evaluated
at the beginning of the loop.
It will perform the loop for
an already determined number of times or
determined by a variable.
The definition will be,
for counter to limit to
the code that is going
to be a repeated, and end.
The next one is the while.
A while loop is set while
a condition is true.
So it could be set at sensor or 10,
while sensor is called do a series of
tasks to heat up the sensor, end.
So this loop will be repeated
while the condition is true.
And the until loop which it has been
therefore created to know.
The until loop is evaluated
at the end of the loop trying
to determine if a condition is
true at the end of the loop.
So there's nothing an until loop
can do that a while loop cannot do.